# Synthetic Data Generation with Blenderproc

## Installation
Blenderproc can be installed with pip:
```
pip install blenderproc
```
If you run into troubles, please consult the [project's own github page](https://github.com/DLR-RM/BlenderProc).


## Usage

[Blenderproc](https://github.com/DLR-RM/BlenderProc) is intended to create a single scene and render multiple frames of it. Adding and removing objects (such as varying the number of distractors) will cause memory bloat and poor performance.  To avoid this issue, we use a batching script (`run_blenderproc_datagen.py`) to run a standalone blenderproc script several times.



### Usage example:

Run the blenderproc script in five parallel jobs, each generating 1000 frames. Each frame will have six instances of the object and ten randomly chosen distractor objects:
```
./run_blenderproc_datagen.py --nb_runs 5 --nb_frames 1000 --path_single_obj ../models/Ketchup/google_16k/textured.obj --nb_objects 6 --distractors_folder ~/data/google_scanned_models/ --nb_distractors 10 --backgrounds_folder ../dome_hdri_haven/
```

Parameters of the top-level script can be shown by running
```
python ./run_blenderproc_datagen.py --help
```

Note that, as a blenderproc script, `generate_training_data.py` cannot be invoked with Python. It must be run via the `blenderproc` launch script.  To discover its command-line parameters, you must look
at the source-code itself; `blenderproc run ./generate_training_data.py --help` will not report
them properly.

Blenderproc searches for python modules in a different order than when invoking Python by itself.  If you run into an issue where `generate_training_data.py` fails to import modules that you have installed, you may have to re-install them via blenderproc; e.g. `blenderproc pip install pyquaternion`.

## Versioning Notes

10 June 2024

The order of the `projected_cuboid` points generated by the Blenderproc scripts changed with
changelist `22a2468`.  This fix rotated the points 180 degrees around the Z (vertical axis). Do not
intermingle data generated before this change with data generated after it.
